How to get the “funk” tone on the electric guitar

Im a total beginner at electric guitar, but I was gifted a fender stratocaster with a Boss katana MKII amp (no other accessories like the pedal etc.).

I’ve been fiddling around with the amp and I found out what each of the knobs change. But I really want to achieve the funk (I think thats what It’s called) tone like the ones in “Runaway baby” and “Moves like Jagger” songs.

What are the dial settings you guys use or like how do you change it to more advanced tones (aside from clean, acoustic, etc.)

Position 2 and 4.

This and also mess around with pickup heights to get that quack. Try adjusting the middle one to be a little lower that the neck and bridge..

Use either of the two in between settings on the pickup. Neck and middle, or bridge and middle. Use the clean setting on that amp with minimal gain. Bass cut to 6-7 o’clock. High at 12 o’clock center. Mids boost to 3-4 o’clock. Keep the Presence knob about where it is now at 2-3 o’clock.

This would be a good starting point.

The rest would be left and right hand technique. Lots of left hand muting, and loose right hand rhythm for the chords. More palm muted for the single note (non lead) rhythmic parts.

Neat! Check out Cory Wong for funk tone tips and some great exercises. A starting place - position 4 on the strat (neck + middle pickup), a relatively thin pick, clean settings on the amp (clean model, a little +/- mids on the eq to taste) and excellent rhythmic playing. 

Set your amp to “clean”. If you’re starting everything else is a distraction.

The funk sound is all about constantly picking, just like the drum’s hi-hat, while sometimes muting, sometimes letting the chord sound (the kel-kek-kek-chick-a-chick-a in Moves Like Jagger).

Once you get your strumming and your muting technique in place, then you can start thinking about incorporating compressors and reverbs.

What you're describing is more achieved by technique than actual "tone."

Bridge pickup, maybe bridge/Middle combo, compressor, and it's a very percussive strum.