
There are 4 ways to soften the attack.

1 manipulate the volume control of your guitar. This is one I find extremely awkward. It's easier on a Gretsch with the master volume down on the lower cutaway. Impossible on any guitar with 2 volume knobs if you are using both pickups together. However, It's free so try it

2 volume pedal. This is usually a cheap, highly controllable and the most authentic way of getting the Knopfler sound without learning new techniques.

3 automatic swell pedal. Mooer do one which is called the slow engine, this is great if you want to remove the attack of nearly all your notes. Being automatic it needs a clear attack to work on so any notes that run on like hammer-ons won't trigger it. I use mine for slide guitar.

4 ebow. This is a whole different beast. It only works on one string at a time and boosts your signal by about tenfold. It is incredibly difficult to use and absolutely NOT what you need to get the Knopfler sound. However if you want synth like single notes that sustain forever then this thing is amazing.

I have all 3 devices and use them regularly so I am not basing my opinions on something I once read on Facebook.

Knopfler uses a pedal; he was using an Ernie Ball at one time, don't know if that's still true. You can't effectively use the knobs when you are playing a Les Paul in the middle position, which he sometimes is.

Boss used to make a pedal called the Slow Gear SG-1 that did auto volume swells. It's no longer made.

So I bought this DIY kit and built my own: Lazy Sprocket

also, the mooer slow engine is a clone of that boss pedal that’s still produced for people that arent as interested with DIY

The Mooer is very cool. I use it all the time on slide guitar to get that ethereal lead sound on Breathe by Pink Floyd. It saves pumping away at a volume pedal like a sewing machine enthusiast.

If you only want the odd volume swell like Mark Knopfler does then a volume pedal has more control.


The type of volume pedal you're able to use depends on whether or not you have active or passive pickups. However if you get an active volume pedal you can use it for either one. I just picked up the fender active volume pedal for that very reason.

