jazz chords, reverb, hammeron pulloffs, pinky flicks, slide in and slide outs of chords, and subtle whammy bar action. The genre is 90% dependent on technique and rhythm to pass the "vibe" check.

PS, knowing how your guitar sounds throughout the neck is a big plus.

Get an amp with good headroom and that is known for a nice clean sound. Most people would probably recommend Fender, boutique amps (they are pricey so won't list them out), or a Roland JC/Roland Cube.

R&B is a lot of 7th chords and extended chords, hammer ons/pull offs, arpeggios, and thumb slapping (to make the snare drum sound). You could probably find a YouTube video on each of these subjects.

Don't need too many pedals for R&B/neo-soul. I'd say reverb (most amps come with this but you can also buy a pedal), overdrive pedal like a boss blues driver, and maybe a clean boost.

Not sure if you have a guitar but I think Strats and teles work nicely for R&B/neo-soul. I also like Les Pauls too.

Check out Kerry "Too Smooth" and Melanie Faye on YouTube.

Getting a tone from playing a guitar is like getting a taste from cooking food: you got to keep tasting what you're making and season accordingly. One comment here stated "Single coil pickup and compressor" which probably works for that commentator but not me.

Taste and tone is personal. Although I have a beautiful Am Pro II Strat, I play soul with a humbucker guitar with a little reverb and tremolo to taste. I leave my compressor off my pedal board completely. There's no simple, easy OR wrong answer, you just got to figure out what works for you. Start experimenting with different pickup positions, turning the tone knobs on the guitar, how you pick attack (or finger pick), etc. This is how you will find your voice as a musician. So start answering this question: how do YOU get a R&B/soul tone?

Best of luck!

Long term answer: Black Face Fender or a Neural DSP plug in, reverb pedal or built-in reverb on the amp. Get some kind of single coil guitar, but if you got humbuckers, they'll be fine.