[Discussion] Which "unconventional" guitar tone is your favorite?
We all know that EVH's "brown sound" is a universally loved, sought after, recreated, guitar tone. You'd be hard-pressed to find a guitar player who didn't like it. But what are some of the lesser, more unconventional tones do you like? For example, I absolutely love the guitar tone Green Day used on Nimrod. They turned the gain down considerably for the entire album, and we get a less-processed, crunchy, overdrive sound that sounds great. There's nothing inherently special about it, but I love the way it sounds and feels.

Carpe Tenebrum's 'Majestic Nothingness' - a (presumably) Boss HM-2 driven tone, striking perfect balance between angry, abrasive, and soothing. Combined with the cold keyboards and strange lyrics, it creates a very strong atmosphere.

Satyricon's 'Dark Medieval Times' - black metal is known for buzzsaw tones, but these gentlemen put both z's into this word on their debut. When the second guitar comes in at 18:34, it can be genuinely mistaken for a lumber mill sample :D

Not unconventional at all, but Rock 'n' Rolf's Mesa Mark tone from the 90's doesn't get enough love. Everybody's over Hetfield and Petrucci, but the best Mark tone is Running Wild hands down. Power chords sound like lightsabers, and simple melodic solos sound like the most beautiful thing ever.

Anything Trent Reznor is doing with NIN. He generally completely ignores any sense of standard practice. Amps? Rarely used. Pedals? So many. Modeler? Rare. Running through synths? All the time. Needing fancy or expensive specific guitars? Nah.

Dick Dale

Nasty drippy outboard reverb tank punching a Fender tweed in the face. A stratocaster with telephone pole strings and the pickup switching set to do neck and bridge.

It’s over the top, it’s loud, it hums. And you hit the wiggle stick even though DD didn’t and put it just a little out of tune.

NYC and UK early punk is marvelous. The Ramones and the buzzcocks especially. It’s close to the brown sound, but it’s nastier, less refined, and typically uses p90’s.

I think the tone on The Real Thing by Faith No More is just phenomenal. I love marshalls, but something I love even more is out of phase guitar tones. They have a scooped sound, but not in a stereotypical way. It gives the tone character where just scooping the amps mids would remove it. And being out of phase it seems to remove some of the nasty high end too. All in all, I find these types of tones are always the most unique and exciting, even if on a technical level they shouldn't work, or could end up ruining a mix.

Other similar tones would be Triumph And Power - Grand Magus The Chemical Wedding - Bruce Dickinson Souls Of Black - Testament The Panic Broadcast - Soilwork

They all have that throaty sound that I am certain comes from some sort of phasing artefacts, whether they're intentional or not I don't know but I love it

Eric Johnson's drive tone. Eric's tones as a whole are some of my favorites, but his drive tone with the Fuzz Face always gives me chills, and it's something that I've never seen someone perfectly replicating, even when using the same setup as him. He's the epitome of "tone is in the hands" for me

The Fall of Troy's 'Doppelgänger' jumps out to me. A big part of the sound is the playing itself, but the tones are bizarre. The guitar pops super hard, partially because it's a three-piece, and also because the guitar sounds are so piercing and abrasive. Notably, the midrange is super pronounced, so it has the advantage of sounding very articulate and unapologetically brash. Granted, they are not necessarily, "good," tones in a traditional sense, but it sounds so right in that context that it doesn't matter.

My favorite tones would be the Hendrix cleanish tone with the bridge pickup that he used on things like Have You Ever Been to Electric Ladyland and the sick distorted tone he had on Band of Gypsies live.
Tony Iommi's tone was always amazing, especially on the first 4 albums.
People have been trying to duplicate that tone forever but it's never quite the same.
Billy Corgan got pretty close on the Mellon Collie album.
I love the tone of the Epiphone Casinos on all those great Beatles tracks.
Keith Richards was an absolute master of tone. Midnight Rambler is probably my favorite and I love his Tele tone on stuff like Honky Tonk Women. Kevin Shields tone on the My Bloody Valentine Loveless album is insane. It surrounds you like a warm fuzzy blanket!
